h1. xSlider

Yet another slideshow plugin for jQuery. The goals is to accept on demand changes while take care the slides to keep running smoothly at the same time without break things.

Download the stable version at "http://xslider.codapixa.com/":http://xslider.codapixa.com/

&copy; 2011 Firman Wandayandi.

h2. Features

* Support any HTML elements
* No css required, styling at your needs!
* Slides looping
* Refresh utility function to replica the slides on the fly without break the running animation (handy for AJAX calls)
* 4 transition effects (slide, roll, fall and fade)
* 3 callbacks provided (onLoaded, onBefore and onComplete)
* Auto play
* Playback control play, pause and stop
* Supports auto generated pagination or custom navigation
* Auto generated Previous and Next navigation
* Pause on mouse over (auto play mode only)
* Uses HTML5 valid markup
* Animated auto adjust the slide dimension
* Utility method calls to control the slides
* Works in Firefox, Safari, Google Chrome, Opera and Internet Explorer

h2. Future Additions

* Enable to set the number of items per slide
* Add more transition effects
* Add preloading image support

h2. License

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the “License”);
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

"http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0":http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

h2. Examples

"Basic implementation":http://xslider.codapixa.com/examples/basic.html
"Styling guide":http://xslider.codapixa.com/examples/styling.html
"Custom navigation":http://xslider.codapixa.com/examples/navigation.html

h2. Usage

The scipts
<pre><code>
<script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.xslider.min.js"></script>
</code></pre>

The HTML
<pre><code><ul id="slide">
  <li>First</li>
  <li>Second</li>
  <li>Third</li>
</ul></code></pre>

The Stylesheet
<pre><code>/* No styling required */</code></pre>

Initialization
<pre><code><script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function() {
  $('#slide').xslider();
});</script></code></pre>

h2. Available Options

* *children*: Slide item selector. (_Default: null_)
* *width*: Slide item width. (_Default: null_)
* *height*: Slide item height. (_Default: null_)
* *effect*: Animation effect. Can be set to 'slide', 'roll', 'fall' or 'fade'. (_Default: 'slide'_)
* *speed*: Animation speed in milliseconds or a keyword 'slow', 'normal' or 'fast'. (_Default: 'normal'_)
* *order*: Items order. Can be set to 'sequence', 'random' or 'random-start'. (_Default: 'sequence'_)
* *timeout*: Delay between transitions in milliseconds (_Default: '2000'_)
* *easing*: jQuery Easing animation id to use the easing animation. Requires "jQuery Easing":http://gsgd.co.uk/sandbox/jquery/easing/ to works. (_Default: null_)
* *navigation*: Set to true to auto generate the navigation or supply the jQuery selector to use own navigation. (_Default: null_)
* *prevNext*: Specifies whether to generate the previous and next navigation or not. (_Default: true_)
* *wrapperClass*: CSS class to added into wrapper element. (_Default: 'xslider'_)
* *navigationClass*: CSS class to added into navigation element. (_Default: 'xslider-nav'_)
* *autoPlay*: Specifies Whether to play the slideshow on loaded or not. (_Default: false_)
* *pauseOnHover*: Specifies whether to pause the slides when the mouse over on auto play mode. (_Default: true_)
* *onLoaded*: A function to call once xSlider fully loaded. It receives the following arguments: current item index, last item index, current item, last item and items collection. (_Default: null_)
* *onBefore*: A function to call before run the animation. It receives the following arguments: current item index, last item index, current item, last item and items collection. (_Default: null_)
* *onComplete*: A function to call once the animation complete. It receives the following arguments: current item index, last item index, current item, last item and items collection. (_Default: null_)

h2. Utility Method Calls

*$('#slides').xslider( 'play' )*
Command the slides playback to play.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'stop' )*
Command the slides playback to stop.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'pause' )*
Command the slides playback to pause.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'goto', _[item]_ )*
Set the slides to goto supplied item which the _[item]_ is slide index number or jQuery object of the item.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'next' )*
Set the slides to goto next slide.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'previous' )*
Set the slides to goto previous slide.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'status' )*
Get the slides status which returns an object consist with properties: state, current and last.

*$('#slides').xslider( 'refresh' )*
Refresh the slides after committed the changes to the slides.

